website/content/docs/core/controller/mcp.mdx, before:

---
title: Agentica > Guide Documents > Core Library > Function Controllers > MCP Protocol
---

## Overview

MCP (Model Context Protocol) is a protocol for connecting LLM applications with various transports. Currently, MCP only supports tools functionality, while prompts and resources are not yet supported.

Here's a complete example of how to use it:

```typescript filename="src/main.ts" showLineNumbers copy
import { Agentica, assertMcpLlmApplication } from "@wrtnlabs/agentica";
import { StdioClientTransport } from "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/client/stdio.js";
import { Client } from "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/client/index.js";

const client = new Client({
  name: "calculator",
  version: "1.0.0",
});

await client.connect(new StdioClientTransport({
  command: "npx",
  args: ["-y", "@modelcontextprotocol/server-github"],
  env: {
    GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN: process.env.GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN,
    // Add other environment variables as needed
  }
}));

const agent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: new OpenAI({ apiKey: "*****"})
    model: "gpt-4o-mini"
  },
  controllers: [{
    protocol: "mcp",
    name: "calculator",
    application: await assertMcpLlmApplication({ client }),
  }]
});
await agent.conversate("What can you do?");
```

## Transport Options

### Stdio Transport
The example above uses `StdioClientTransport` which is suitable for Node.js environments.

### SSE Transport
For Server-Sent Events (SSE) connections, you should use the `SseClientTransport` instead. This is particularly useful for web-based applications.

```typescript
import { SseClientTransport } from "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/client/sse.js";

await client.connect(new SseClientTransport({
  url: "your-sse-endpoint"
}));
```

## Authentication

### Transport Authentication
For Stdio transport, you can pass environment variables to the child process:

```typescript
await client.connect(new StdioClientTransport({
  command: "npx",
  args: ["-y", "@modelcontextprotocol/server-github"],
  env: {
    GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN: process.env.GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN,
    // Add other environment variables as needed
  }
}));
```

## Important Notes

### Connection Requirements
The `await client.connect()` call is mandatory. If you omit this step, the application will throw an error as the client needs to establish a connection before it can be used.

### Browser Compatibility
Note that `StdioClientTransport` uses Node.js's `child_process` module internally, which means it will not work in browser environments. For browser-based applications, you should use `SseClientTransport` instead.

### Feature Support
Currently, MCP only supports tools functionality. Prompts and resources are not yet supported in the current version.

Commit message:

docs(website): add mcp model compatibility description
Signed-off-by: sunrabbit123 <qudwls185@naver.com>

website/content/docs/core/controller/mcp.mdx, after:

---
title: Agentica > Guide Documents > Core Library > Function Controllers > MCP Protocol
---

## Overview

```typescript filename="src/main.ts" showLineNumbers copy
import { Agentica, assertMcpLlmApplication } from "@wrtnlabs/agentica";
import { StdioClientTransport } from "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/client/stdio.js";
import { Client } from "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/client/index.js";

const client = new Client({
  name: "calculator",
  version: "1.0.0",
});

await client.connect(new StdioClientTransport({
  command: "npx",
  args: ["-y", "@modelcontextprotocol/server-github"],
  env: {
    GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN: process.env.GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN,
    // Add other environment variables as needed
  }
}));

const agent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: new OpenAI({ apiKey: "*****"})
    model: "gpt-4o-mini"
  },
  controllers: [{
    protocol: "mcp",
    name: "calculator",
    application: await assertMcpLlmApplication({ client }),
  }]
});
await agent.conversate("What can you do?");
```

MCP (Model Context Protocol) is a protocol for connecting LLM applications with various transports. Currently, MCP only supports tools functionality, while prompts and resources are not yet supported.

To use MCP, you need to install the MCP SDK package separately:

```bash
npm install @modelcontextprotocol/sdk
```

## Transport Options

### Stdio Transport
The example above uses `StdioClientTransport` which is suitable for Node.js environments.

### SSE Transport
For Server-Sent Events (SSE) connections, you should use the `SseClientTransport` instead. This is particularly useful for web-based applications.

```typescript
import { SseClientTransport } from "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/client/sse.js";

await client.connect(new SseClientTransport({
  url: "your-sse-endpoint"
}));
```

## Authentication

### Transport Authentication
For Stdio transport, you can pass environment variables to the child process:

```typescript
await client.connect(new StdioClientTransport({
  command: "npx",
  args: ["-y", "@modelcontextprotocol/server-github"],
  env: {
    GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN: process.env.GITHUB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN,
    // Add other environment variables as needed
  }
}));
```

## Important Notes

### Connection Requirements
The `await client.connect()` call is mandatory. If you omit this step, the application will throw an error as the client needs to establish a connection before it can be used.

### Browser Compatibility
Note that `StdioClientTransport` uses Node.js's `child_process` module internally, which means it will not work in browser environments. For browser-based applications, you should use `SseClientTransport` instead.

### Feature Support
Currently, MCP only supports tools functionality. Prompts and resources are not yet supported in the current version.

### LLM Model Compatibility
The compatibility of custom MCP servers with different LLM models may vary. This is because each LLM model supports different JSON schemas for function calling. If an MCP server provides a schema that doesn't match the LLM's expected format, the model may not be able to understand or properly use the provided tools. Always verify that your MCP server's schema is compatible with your chosen LLM model.
