website/content/tutorial/coding/github.mdx, before:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > Github Agents  
---

## Introduction

Set up a **fully functional Github Agent** powered by OpenAI's GPT model quickly using the Agentica CLI. This agent lets you interact with Github—search users, retrieve profiles, and list repositories—through natural language commands.

## Quick CLI Setup

Launch the Agentica Setup Wizard with a single command:

```bash
npx agentica start github-agent
```

The wizard guides you through:
- Installing required packages (e.g., agentica@0.12.14)
- Choosing your package manager and project type
- Selecting the **GITHUB** controller
- Entering your `OPENAI_API_KEY`

Once complete, Agentica automatically generates your code, creates a `.env` file, and installs all dependencies.

## Generated Code Overview

The generated code looks like this:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import { GithubService } from "@wrtnlabs/connector-github";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import OpenAI from "openai";
import typia from "typia";

dotenv.config();

const openai = new OpenAI({ apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY });

export const GithubAgent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: openai,
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Github Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<GithubService, "chatgpt">(),
      execute: new GithubService({
        secret: process.env.GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN!,
      }),
    },
  ],
});
```

This code instantly sets up your Github Agent to interact with Github via its API.

## Github API Setup

Before running your agent, configure your Github API credentials:

1. **Create a Github Application:**  
   - Visit [Github Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/developers) to create a new OAuth application.
   - An OAuth application allows you to obtain a token (starting with `gho_`), which boosts your API rate limit for more stable usage.

2. **Obtain Credentials:**  
   - Generate the necessary token and ensure you have the required permissions.

3. **Set Up Environment Variables:**  
   - Create or update your `.env` file with:

   ```env
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
   GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN=your-github-access-token
   ```

## What This Does

Your Github Agent will:
- **Process Github Data:** Use the `GithubService` connector to search users, fetch profiles, and list repositories.
- **Leverage OpenAI's GPT Model:** Translate natural language queries into Github API calls.
- **Maintain Type Safety:** With `typia`.
- **Securely Manage Credentials:** Using environment variables via `dotenv`.

## Available Functions

For a complete list of available functions in `GithubService`, check out the source code:  
👉 [wrtnlabs/connectors - GithubService.ts](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/connectors/blob/main/packages/github/src/github/GithubService.ts)

Your AI-powered Github Agent is now ready for seamless Github interactions! 🚀

Commit message:

docs(website): add stackblitz demo code on the playground (#193)

website/content/tutorial/coding/github.mdx, after:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > Github Agents
---

## Introduction

- [playground](https://stackblitz.com/~/github.com/wrtnlabs/agentica-tutorial-github?file=README.md) You can see the demo code on the playground.

Set up a **fully functional Github Agent** powered by OpenAI's GPT model quickly using the Agentica CLI. This agent lets you interact with Github—search users, retrieve profiles, and list repositories—through natural language commands.

## Quick CLI Setup

Launch the Agentica Setup Wizard with a single command:

```bash
npx agentica start github-agent
```

The wizard guides you through:

- Installing required packages (e.g., agentica@0.12.14)
- Choosing your package manager and project type
- Selecting the **GITHUB** controller
- Entering your `OPENAI_API_KEY`

Once complete, Agentica automatically generates your code, creates a `.env` file, and installs all dependencies.

## Generated Code Overview

The generated code looks like this:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import { GithubService } from "@wrtnlabs/connector-github";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import OpenAI from "openai";
import typia from "typia";

dotenv.config();

const openai = new OpenAI({ apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY });

export const GithubAgent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: openai,
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Github Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<GithubService, "chatgpt">(),
      execute: new GithubService({
        secret: process.env.GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN!,
      }),
    },
  ],
});
```

This code instantly sets up your Github Agent to interact with Github via its API.

## Github API Setup

Before running your agent, configure your Github API credentials:

1. **Create a Github Application:**

   - Visit [Github Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/developers) to create a new OAuth application.
   - An OAuth application allows you to obtain a token (starting with `gho_`), which boosts your API rate limit for more stable usage.

2. **Obtain Credentials:**

   - Generate the necessary token and ensure you have the required permissions.

3. **Set Up Environment Variables:**

   - Create or update your `.env` file with:

   ```env
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
   GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN=your-github-access-token
   ```

## What This Does

Your Github Agent will:

- **Process Github Data:** Use the `GithubService` connector to search users, fetch profiles, and list repositories.
- **Leverage OpenAI's GPT Model:** Translate natural language queries into Github API calls.
- **Maintain Type Safety:** With `typia`.
- **Securely Manage Credentials:** Using environment variables via `dotenv`.

## Available Functions

For a complete list of available functions in `GithubService`, check out the source code:  
👉 [wrtnlabs/connectors - GithubService.ts](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/connectors/blob/main/packages/github/src/github/GithubService.ts)

Your AI-powered Github Agent is now ready for seamless Github interactions! 🚀
