website/content/tutorial/coding/vector-store.mdx, before:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > RAG Agents  
---

## Introduction

This tutorial guides you through setting up a **Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) Agent** using **Agentica**. With the code below, you can create an agent that combines OpenAI's GPT model with a vector store for document retrieval and summarization.

## The Complete RAG Agent

First, install the required package:

```bash
npm install @agentica/openai-vector-store
```

Then, add the following code to your project:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import { AgenticaOpenAIVectorStoreSelector } from "@agentica/openai-vector-store";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import OpenAI from "openai";
import typia from "typia";

dotenv.config();

const openai = new OpenAI({ apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY });

const selector = new AgenticaOpenAIVectorStoreSelector({
  provider: {
    api: openai,
    assistant: { name: "agentica", model: "gpt-4o-mini" },
    vectorStore: { name: "vectorStore" },
  },
});

export const RagAgent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: openai,
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      protocol: "class",
      name: "vectorStore",
      application: typia.llm.application<
        AgenticaOpenAIVectorStoreSelector,
        "chatgpt"
      >(),
      execute: selector,
    },
  ],
});
```

## How It Works

With this configuration, the RAG Agent will:

- **Utilize a Vector Store Selector:** The `AgenticaOpenAIVectorStoreSelector` connects OpenAI’s API with a vector store, enabling document retrieval based on natural language queries.
- **Process Natural Language Queries:** The agent converts user queries into vector-based searches, retrieving relevant documents.
- **Generate Intelligent Responses:** It then uses the GPT model to summarize or respond to queries based on the retrieved documents.
- **Ensure Type Safety:** By using `typia`, the code maintains strong type safety.
- **Secure API Access:** Environment variables (managed by `dotenv`) secure your API keys.

For more detailed information about `AgenticaOpenAIVectorStoreSelector`, please refer to the [Vector Store repository](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/vector-store).

## Use Case Example

Imagine asking the agent:

> "Summarize recent advancements in AI research."

The agent will process your query by searching the vector store for relevant documents, and then use OpenAI's GPT model to generate a concise summary based on the retrieved information.

## Environment Setup

Create a `.env` file in your project root with the following content:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
```

## Final Notes & Tips

- **Testing and Debugging:**  
  - During development, log responses and verify that your queries return the expected results.
  - Consider adding error handling to manage potential issues like API timeouts or vector store response delays.

- **Security and Environment Variables:**  
  - Ensure that your API keys in the `.env` file are not committed to version control.
  - For production environments, use a secure secret management system.

- **Vector Store Functionality:**  
  - The vector store is key to mapping natural language queries to relevant documents. Understanding its role can help you optimize search results.
  
- **Additional Use Cases:**  
  - Beyond summarization, the agent can support various document retrieval tasks such as Q&A, content aggregation, or even generating insights based on a corpus of documents.

This code block sets up a fully functional RAG Agent using Agentica. Enjoy harnessing the power of natural language interactions combined with vector-based document retrieval to create dynamic, intelligent responses!

Commit message:

docs(website): add stackblitz demo code on the playground (#193)

website/content/tutorial/coding/vector-store.mdx, after:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > RAG Agents
---

## Introduction

- [playground](https://stackblitz.com/~/github.com/wrtnlabs/agentica-tutorial-vector-store?file=README.md) You can see the demo code on the playground.

This tutorial guides you through setting up a **Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) Agent** using **Agentica**. With the code below, you can create an agent that combines OpenAI's GPT model with a vector store for document retrieval and summarization.

## The Complete RAG Agent

First, install the required package:

```bash
npm install @agentica/openai-vector-store
```

Then, add the following code to your project:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import { AgenticaOpenAIVectorStoreSelector } from "@agentica/openai-vector-store";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import OpenAI from "openai";
import typia from "typia";

dotenv.config();

const openai = new OpenAI({ apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY });

const selector = new AgenticaOpenAIVectorStoreSelector({
  provider: {
    api: openai,
    assistant: { name: "agentica", model: "gpt-4o-mini" },
    vectorStore: { name: "vectorStore" },
  },
});

export const RagAgent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: openai,
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      protocol: "class",
      name: "vectorStore",
      application: typia.llm.application<
        AgenticaOpenAIVectorStoreSelector,
        "chatgpt"
      >(),
      execute: selector,
    },
  ],
});
```

## How It Works

With this configuration, the RAG Agent will:

- **Utilize a Vector Store Selector:** The `AgenticaOpenAIVectorStoreSelector` connects OpenAI’s API with a vector store, enabling document retrieval based on natural language queries.
- **Process Natural Language Queries:** The agent converts user queries into vector-based searches, retrieving relevant documents.
- **Generate Intelligent Responses:** It then uses the GPT model to summarize or respond to queries based on the retrieved documents.
- **Ensure Type Safety:** By using `typia`, the code maintains strong type safety.
- **Secure API Access:** Environment variables (managed by `dotenv`) secure your API keys.

For more detailed information about `AgenticaOpenAIVectorStoreSelector`, please refer to the [Vector Store repository](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/vector-store).

## Use Case Example

Imagine asking the agent:

> "Summarize recent advancements in AI research."

The agent will process your query by searching the vector store for relevant documents, and then use OpenAI's GPT model to generate a concise summary based on the retrieved information.

## Environment Setup

Create a `.env` file in your project root with the following content:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
```

## Final Notes & Tips

- **Testing and Debugging:**

  - During development, log responses and verify that your queries return the expected results.
  - Consider adding error handling to manage potential issues like API timeouts or vector store response delays.

- **Security and Environment Variables:**

  - Ensure that your API keys in the `.env` file are not committed to version control.
  - For production environments, use a secure secret management system.

- **Vector Store Functionality:**
  - The vector store is key to mapping natural language queries to relevant documents. Understanding its role can help you optimize search results.
- **Additional Use Cases:**
  - Beyond summarization, the agent can support various document retrieval tasks such as Q&A, content aggregation, or even generating insights based on a corpus of documents.

This code block sets up a fully functional RAG Agent using Agentica. Enjoy harnessing the power of natural language interactions combined with vector-based document retrieval to create dynamic, intelligent responses!
