# 3. success

## Summary

- Name: order
- Type: success
- Time: 3,319 ms
- Token Usage
  - Total: 28,792
  - Prompt
    - Total: 28,601
    - Audio: 0
    - Cached: 28,416
  - Completion:
    - Total: 28,792
    - Accepted Prediction: 0
    - Audio: 0
    - Reasoning: 0
    - Rejected Prediction: 0

## Scenario

### User Prompt

I wanna see every sales in the shopping mall

And then show me the detailed information about the Macbook.

After that, select the most expensive stock
from the Macbook, and put it into my shopping cart.
And take the shopping cart to the order.

At last, I'll publish it by cash payment, and my address is

- country: South Korea
- city/province: Seoul
- department: Wrtn Apartment
- Possession: 101-1411

### Expected

```json
{
  "type": "array",
  "items": [
    {
      "type": "standalone",
      "operation": {
        "name": "shoppings_customers_sales_index",
        "description": "List up every summarized sales.\n\nList up every {@link IShoppingSale.ISummary summarized sales}.\n\nAs you can see, returned sales are summarized, not detailed. It does not\ncontain the SKU (Stock Keeping Unit) information represented by the\n{@link IShoppingSaleUnitOption} and {@link IShoppingSaleUnitStock} types.\nIf you want to get such detailed information of a sale, use\n`GET /shoppings/customers/sales/{id}` operation for each sale.\n\n> If you're an A.I. chatbot, and the user wants to buy or compose\n> {@link IShoppingCartCommodity shopping cart} from a sale, please\n> call the `GET /shoppings/customers/sales/{id}` operation at least once\n> to the target sale to get detailed SKU information about the sale.\n> It needs to be run at least once for the next steps."
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "standalone",
      "operation": {
        "name": "shoppings_customers_sales_at",
        "description": "Get a sale with detailed information.\n\nGet a {@link IShoppingSale sale} with detailed information including\nthe SKU (Stock Keeping Unit) information represented by the\n{@link IShoppingSaleUnitOption} and {@link IShoppingSaleUnitStock} types.\n\n> If you're an A.I. chatbot, and the user wants to buy or compose a\n> {@link IShoppingCartCommodity shopping cart} from a sale, please call\n> this operation at least once to the target sale to get detailed SKU\n> information about the sale.\n>\n> It needs to be run at least once for the next steps. In other words,\n> if you A.I. agent has called this operation to a specific sale, you\n> don't need to call this operation again for the same sale.\n>\n> Additionally, please do not summarize the SKU information. Just show\n> the every options and stocks in the sale with detailed information."
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "anyOf",
      "anyOf": [
        {
          "type": "standalone",
          "operation": {
            "name": "shoppings_customers_orders_create",
            "description": "Create a new order application.\n\nCreate a new {@link IShoppingOrder order application} from a\n{@link IShoppingCartCommodity shopping cart} that has been composed by the\n{@link IShoppingCustomer}. Of course, do not need to put every commodities\nto the order, but possible to select some of them by the customer.\n\nBy the way, this function does not mean completion the order, but means\njust customer is applying the order. The order be completed only when customer\n{@link IShoppingOrderPublish.paid_at pays} the order.\n\n> If you are an A.I. chatbot, don't take a mistake that writing\n> the `commodity_id` with the user selected stock ID. The\n> `commodity_id` is the ID of the shopping cart commodity, not the\n> stock ID. The stock ID is already included in the shopping cart\n> commodity."
          }
        },
        {
          "type": "standalone",
          "operation": {
            "name": "shoppings_customers_orders_direct",
            "description": "Create a new order application without a shopping cart.\n\nCarete a new {@link IShoppingOrder order application} without a\n{@link IShoppingCartCommodity shopping cart commodity} composition.\nIf you're an A.I. chatbot and user wants to directly purchase a product,\nthen select and call this function.\n\nBy the way, this function does not mean completion the order, but means\njust customer is applying the order. The order be completed only when customer\n{@link IShoppingOrderPublish.paid_at pays} the order."
          }
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "type": "standalone",
      "operation": {
        "name": "shoppings_customers_orders_publish_create",
        "description": "Publish an order.\n\n{@link IShoppingOrderPublish Publish} an {@link IShoppingOrder order} that\nhas been applied by the {@link IShoppingCustomer} with\n{@link IShoppingAddress address} to delivery and payment information gotten\nfrom the payment vendor system.\n\nIf the order has been discounted for entire order price, then no need\nto send payment vendor info. Instead, only address info is required.\n\nAlso, the payment time can be different with the publish time. For example,\nif the payment method is manual bank account transfer, then the payment\nwould be delayed until the customer actually transfer the money. In that\ncase, {@link IShoppingOrderPublish.paid_at} would be `null` value, so\nthat you have to check it after calling this publish function."
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Result

### shoppings_customers_sales_index

- Controller: `shopping`
- Function: `shoppings_customers_sales_index`
- Reason: To list all the sales available in the shopping mall.

List up every summarized sales.

List up every {@link IShoppingSale.ISummary summarized sales}.

As you can see, returned sales are summarized, not detailed. It does not
contain the SKU (Stock Keeping Unit) information represented by the
{@link IShoppingSaleUnitOption} and {@link IShoppingSaleUnitStock} types.
If you want to get such detailed information of a sale, use
`GET /shoppings/customers/sales/{id}` operation for each sale.

> If you're an A.I. chatbot, and the user wants to buy or compose
> {@link IShoppingCartCommodity shopping cart} from a sale, please
> call the `GET /shoppings/customers/sales/{id}` operation at least once
> to the target sale to get detailed SKU information about the sale.
> It needs to be run at least once for the next steps.

### shoppings_customers_sales_at

- Controller: `shopping`
- Function: `shoppings_customers_sales_at`
- Reason: To get detailed information about the Macbook sale after listing all sales.

Get a sale with detailed information.

Get a {@link IShoppingSale sale} with detailed information including
the SKU (Stock Keeping Unit) information represented by the
{@link IShoppingSaleUnitOption} and {@link IShoppingSaleUnitStock} types.

> If you're an A.I. chatbot, and the user wants to buy or compose a
> {@link IShoppingCartCommodity shopping cart} from a sale, please call
> this operation at least once to the target sale to get detailed SKU
> information about the sale.
>
> It needs to be run at least once for the next steps. In other words,
> if you A.I. agent has called this operation to a specific sale, you
> don't need to call this operation again for the same sale.
>
> Additionally, please do not summarize the SKU information. Just show
> the every options and stocks in the sale with detailed information.

### shoppings_customers_carts_commodities_create

- Controller: `shopping`
- Function: `shoppings_customers_carts_commodities_create`
- Reason: To create a shopping cart commodity for the selected stock.

Create a new commodity.

Create a new {@link IShoppingCartCommodity commodity} into a specific
shopping cart.

If {@link IShoppingCartCommodity.ICreate.accumulate} has `true` value
and there's some same commodity that composed with same
{@link IShoppingSaleUnitStock.IInvert stocks and quantities},
then new commodity would not be created but the volume would be accumulated.

By the way, if the target {@link IShoppingSale sale} has been suspended or
{@link IShoppingSaleUnitStockInventory out of stock}, then 410 gone error
would be thrown. Therefore, it would better to check the target sale and
{@link IShoppingSaleUnitStock stock}'s status before.

### shoppings_customers_carts_commodities_index

- Controller: `shopping`
- Function: `shoppings_customers_carts_commodities_index`
- Reason: To list all the commodities in the cart before placing an order.

List of every commodities.

List up every {@link IShoppingCartCommodity commodities} in the
shopping cart with {@link IPage pagination}.

You can limit the result by configuring
{@link IShoppingCartCommodity.IRequest.search search condition} in the
request body. Furthermore, it is possible to customize sequence order of
records by configuring {@link IShoppingCartCommodity.IRequest.sort}.

For reference, when some commodity be {@link IShoppingOrder ordered} and
{@link IShoppingOrderPublish published}, then it would not be appread in
the shopping cart more. Otherwise, the order has not been published yet,
it would be appread in the shopping cart and still enable to create a new
{@link IShoppingOrder order application} with the same commodity.

Of course, if the target {@link IShoppingSale sale} has been suspended, or
{@link IShoppingSaleUnitStockInventory out of stock}, then it would not be
appread in the shopping cart more, either.

### shoppings_customers_orders_create

- Controller: `shopping`
- Function: `shoppings_customers_orders_create`
- Reason: To create an order application after adding the commodity to the cart.

Create a new order application.

Create a new {@link IShoppingOrder order application} from a
{@link IShoppingCartCommodity shopping cart} that has been composed by the
{@link IShoppingCustomer}. Of course, do not need to put every commodities
to the order, but possible to select some of them by the customer.

By the way, this function does not mean completion the order, but means
just customer is applying the order. The order be completed only when customer
{@link IShoppingOrderPublish.paid_at pays} the order.

> If you are an A.I. chatbot, don't take a mistake that writing
> the `commodity_id` with the user selected stock ID. The
> `commodity_id` is the ID of the shopping cart commodity, not the
> stock ID. The stock ID is already included in the shopping cart
> commodity.

### shoppings_customers_orders_publish_create

- Controller: `shopping`
- Function: `shoppings_customers_orders_publish_create`
- Reason: To publish the created order for cash payment and provide delivery address.

Publish an order.

{@link IShoppingOrderPublish Publish} an {@link IShoppingOrder order} that
has been applied by the {@link IShoppingCustomer} with
{@link IShoppingAddress address} to delivery and payment information gotten
from the payment vendor system.

If the order has been discounted for entire order price, then no need
to send payment vendor info. Instead, only address info is required.

Also, the payment time can be different with the publish time. For example,
if the payment method is manual bank account transfer, then the payment
would be delayed until the customer actually transfer the money. In that
case, {@link IShoppingOrderPublish.paid_at} would be `null` value, so
that you have to check it after calling this publish function.
