website/content/tutorial/productivity/arxiv.mdx, before:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > Arxiv Search Agents  
---

## Introduction

Set up a **fully functional Arxiv Search Agent** powered by OpenAI's GPT model quickly using the Agentica CLI.

## Quick CLI Setup

Launch the Agentica Setup Wizard with a single command:

```bash
npx agentica start arxiv-search-agent
```

The wizard guides you through:
- Installing required packages (e.g., agentica@0.12.14)
- Choosing your package manager and project type
- Selecting the **ARXIV SEARCH** controller
- Entering your `OPENAI_API_KEY`

Once complete, Agentica automatically generates your code, creates a `.env` file, and installs all dependencies.

## Generated Code Overview

The generated code looks like this:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import typia from "typia";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import { OpenAI } from "openai";

import { ArxivSearchService } from "@wrtnlabs/connector-arxiv-search";

dotenv.config();

export const agent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: new OpenAI({
      apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY!,
    }),
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "ArxivSearch Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<ArxivSearchService, "chatgpt">(),
      execute: new ArxivSearchService(),
    },
  ],
});

const main = async () => {
  console.log(await agent.conversate("What can you do?"));
};

main();
```

This code instantly sets up your Arxiv Search Agent, ready to intelligently search research papers.

## What This Does

Your Arxiv Search Agent will:
- **Process Arxiv Search Data:** Interact with the Arxiv Search API using the `ArxivSearchService`.
- **Leverage OpenAI's GPT Model:** For smart, AI-powered paper searches.
- **Ensure Type Safety:** Using `typia`.
- **Securely Manage Credentials:** With environment variables.

Set up your environment variable in a `.env` file:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
```

## Use Case Example

Imagine asking the agent:

> "Find papers related to AI Agent."

The agent will search Arxiv for relevant research papers based on your criteria.

## Available Functions

For a complete list of available functions in `ArxivSearchService`, check out the source code:  
👉 [wrtnlabs/connectors - ArxivSearchService.ts](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/connectors/blob/main/packages/arxiv_search/src/arxiv_search/ArxivSearchService.ts)

Your AI-powered Arxiv Search Agent is now ready to explore research papers seamlessly! 🚀

Commit message:

docs(website): add stackblitz demo code on the playground (#193)

website/content/tutorial/productivity/arxiv.mdx, after:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > Arxiv Search Agents
---

## Introduction

- [playground](https://stackblitz.com/~/github.com/wrtnlabs/agentica-tutorial-arxiv?file=README.md) You can see the demo code on the playground.

Set up a **fully functional Arxiv Search Agent** powered by OpenAI's GPT model quickly using the Agentica CLI.

## Quick CLI Setup

Launch the Agentica Setup Wizard with a single command:

```bash
npx agentica start arxiv-search-agent
```

The wizard guides you through:

- Installing required packages (e.g., agentica@0.12.14)
- Choosing your package manager and project type
- Selecting the **ARXIV SEARCH** controller
- Entering your `OPENAI_API_KEY`

Once complete, Agentica automatically generates your code, creates a `.env` file, and installs all dependencies.

## Generated Code Overview

The generated code looks like this:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import typia from "typia";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import { OpenAI } from "openai";

import { ArxivSearchService } from "@wrtnlabs/connector-arxiv-search";

dotenv.config();

export const agent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: new OpenAI({
      apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY!,
    }),
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "ArxivSearch Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<ArxivSearchService, "chatgpt">(),
      execute: new ArxivSearchService(),
    },
  ],
});

const main = async () => {
  console.log(await agent.conversate("What can you do?"));
};

main();
```

This code instantly sets up your Arxiv Search Agent, ready to intelligently search research papers.

## What This Does

Your Arxiv Search Agent will:

- **Process Arxiv Search Data:** Interact with the Arxiv Search API using the `ArxivSearchService`.
- **Leverage OpenAI's GPT Model:** For smart, AI-powered paper searches.
- **Ensure Type Safety:** Using `typia`.
- **Securely Manage Credentials:** With environment variables.

Set up your environment variable in a `.env` file:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
```

## Use Case Example

Imagine asking the agent:

> "Find papers related to AI Agent."

The agent will search Arxiv for relevant research papers based on your criteria.

## Available Functions

For a complete list of available functions in `ArxivSearchService`, check out the source code:  
👉 [wrtnlabs/connectors - ArxivSearchService.ts](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/connectors/blob/main/packages/arxiv_search/src/arxiv_search/ArxivSearchService.ts)

Your AI-powered Arxiv Search Agent is now ready to explore research papers seamlessly! 🚀
