website/content/tutorial/productivity/gmail.mdx, before:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > Gmail Agents  
---

## Introduction

Set up a **fully functional Gmail Agent** powered by OpenAI's GPT model in no time—using the Agentica CLI.

## Quick CLI Setup

Launch the Agentica Setup Wizard with a single command:

```bash
npx agentica start gmail-agent
```

The wizard guides you through:
- Installing the required packages (e.g., agentica@0.12.14)
- Choosing your package manager and project type
- Selecting the **GMAIL** controller
- Entering your `OPENAI_API_KEY`

Once complete, Agentica automatically generates your code, creates a `.env` file, and installs all dependencies.

## Generated Code Overview

The generated Gmail Agent code looks like this:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import typia from "typia";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import { OpenAI } from "openai";

import { GmailService } from "@wrtnlabs/connector-gmail";

dotenv.config();

export const agent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: new OpenAI({
      apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY!,
    }),
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Gmail Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<GmailService, "chatgpt">(),
      execute: new GmailService(),
    },
  ],
});

const main = async () => {
  console.log(await agent.conversate("What can you do?"));
};

main();
```

This code instantly sets up your Gmail Agent to interact with Gmail using OpenAI’s GPT model.

## Google API Setup

Before running the agent, add your Google API credentials to the `.env` file:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
GMAIL_CLIENT_ID=your-gmail-client-id
GMAIL_CLIENT_SECRET=your-gmail-client-secret
GMAIL_REFRESH_TOKEN=your-gmail-refresh-token
```

To get these credentials:
1. **Create a Project in Google Cloud Console:**  
   - Enable the **Gmail API**.
2. **Obtain Credentials:**  
   - Generate OAuth 2.0 credentials to get your Client ID, Client Secret, and Refresh Token.

## What This Does

Your Gmail Agent will:
- **Process Gmail Data:** Use the `GmailService` connector.
- **Leverage OpenAI's GPT Model:** For smart email interactions.
- **Maintain Type Safety:** With `typia`.
- **Securely Manage Credentials:** Using `dotenv`.

## Selecting Specific Functions

You can restrict available functions using TypeScript’s `Pick` utility. For example, to expose only these functions:
- `createDraft`
- `findEmails`
- `deleteMailList`
- `sendEmail`
- `hardDelete`

```typescript
export const GmailAgent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: openai,
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Gmail Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<
        Pick<
          GmailService,
          | "createDraft"
          | "findEmails"
          | "deleteMailList"
          | "sendEmail"
          | "hardDelete"
        >,
        "chatgpt"
      >(),
      execute: new GmailService({
        clientId: process.env.GMAIL_CLIENT_ID!,
        clientSecret: process.env.GMAIL_CLIENT_SECRET!,
        secret: process.env.GMAIL_REFRESH_TOKEN!,
      }),
    },
  ],
});
```

This selective exposure makes your integration even more secure and maintainable.

## Available Functions

For a complete list of functions in `GmailService`, check out the source code:  
👉 [wrtnlabs/connectors - GmailService.ts](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/connectors/blob/main/packages/gmail/src/gmail/GmailService.ts)

Your AI-powered Gmail Agent is now ready for seamless email automation! 🚀

Commit message:

docs(website): add stackblitz demo code on the playground (#193)

website/content/tutorial/productivity/gmail.mdx, after:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > Gmail Agents
---

## Introduction

- [playground](https://stackblitz.com/~/github.com/wrtnlabs/agentica-tutorial-gmail?file=README.md) You can see the demo code on the playground.

Set up a **fully functional Gmail Agent** powered by OpenAI's GPT model in no time—using the Agentica CLI.

## Quick CLI Setup

Launch the Agentica Setup Wizard with a single command:

```bash
npx agentica start gmail-agent
```

The wizard guides you through:

- Installing the required packages (e.g., agentica@0.12.14)
- Choosing your package manager and project type
- Selecting the **GMAIL** controller
- Entering your `OPENAI_API_KEY`

Once complete, Agentica automatically generates your code, creates a `.env` file, and installs all dependencies.

## Generated Code Overview

The generated Gmail Agent code looks like this:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import typia from "typia";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import { OpenAI } from "openai";

import { GmailService } from "@wrtnlabs/connector-gmail";

dotenv.config();

export const agent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: new OpenAI({
      apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY!,
    }),
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Gmail Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<GmailService, "chatgpt">(),
      execute: new GmailService(),
    },
  ],
});

const main = async () => {
  console.log(await agent.conversate("What can you do?"));
};

main();
```

This code instantly sets up your Gmail Agent to interact with Gmail using OpenAI’s GPT model.

## Google API Setup

Before running the agent, add your Google API credentials to the `.env` file:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
GMAIL_CLIENT_ID=your-gmail-client-id
GMAIL_CLIENT_SECRET=your-gmail-client-secret
GMAIL_REFRESH_TOKEN=your-gmail-refresh-token
```

To get these credentials:

1. **Create a Project in Google Cloud Console:**
   - Enable the **Gmail API**.
2. **Obtain Credentials:**
   - Generate OAuth 2.0 credentials to get your Client ID, Client Secret, and Refresh Token.

## What This Does

Your Gmail Agent will:

- **Process Gmail Data:** Use the `GmailService` connector.
- **Leverage OpenAI's GPT Model:** For smart email interactions.
- **Maintain Type Safety:** With `typia`.
- **Securely Manage Credentials:** Using `dotenv`.

## Selecting Specific Functions

You can restrict available functions using TypeScript’s `Pick` utility. For example, to expose only these functions:

- `createDraft`
- `findEmails`
- `deleteMailList`
- `sendEmail`
- `hardDelete`

```typescript
export const GmailAgent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: openai,
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Gmail Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<
        Pick<
          GmailService,
          | "createDraft"
          | "findEmails"
          | "deleteMailList"
          | "sendEmail"
          | "hardDelete"
        >,
        "chatgpt"
      >(),
      execute: new GmailService({
        clientId: process.env.GMAIL_CLIENT_ID!,
        clientSecret: process.env.GMAIL_CLIENT_SECRET!,
        secret: process.env.GMAIL_REFRESH_TOKEN!,
      }),
    },
  ],
});
```

This selective exposure makes your integration even more secure and maintainable.

## Available Functions

For a complete list of functions in `GmailService`, check out the source code:  
👉 [wrtnlabs/connectors - GmailService.ts](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/connectors/blob/main/packages/gmail/src/gmail/GmailService.ts)

Your AI-powered Gmail Agent is now ready for seamless email automation! 🚀
