website/content/tutorial/productivity/google-shopping.mdx, before:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > Google Shopping Agents
---

## Introduction

This tutorial guides you through setting up a **fully functional Google Shopping Agent** using **Agentica**. With the following code block, you can create an agent that interacts with Google Shopping, powered by **OpenAI's GPT model**.

## The Complete Google Shopping Agent

First, install the required Google Shopping connector package:

```bash
npm install @wrtnlabs/connector-google-shopping
```

Then, add the following code to your project:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import { GoogleShoppingService } from "@wrtnlabs/connector-google-shopping";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import OpenAI from "openai";
import typia from "typia";

dotenv.config();

const openai = new OpenAI({ apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY });

export const GoogleShoppingAgent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: openai,
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Google Shopping Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<GoogleShoppingService, "chatgpt">(),
      execute: new GoogleShoppingService({
        apiKey: process.env.SERP_API_KEY!,
      }),
    },
  ],
});
```

## What This Does

With this single setup, your Google Shopping Agent is ready to:

- **Process Google Shopping data** using the `GoogleShopping` connector.
- **Leverage OpenAI’s GPT model** for intelligent shopping queries.
- **Ensure type safety** with `typia`.
- **Securely manage credentials** using `dotenv`.

Just set up your **environment variables** in a `.env` file:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
SERP_API_KEY=serp_api_key
```

Make sure to enter the API key from your SerpApi account in the SERP_API_KEY field.

And you’re all set! 🎉


## Selecting Specific Functions

By using TypeScript’s `Pick` utility type, you can restrict the `GoogleShoppingService` to only expose the methods you need.

For example, in the following code, only these six functions are available:

- `aliExpress`
- `iherb`

```typescript
export const GoogleShoppingAgent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: openai,
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Google Shopping Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<
        Pick<
          GoogleShoppingService,
          | "aliExpress"
          | "iherb"
        >,
        "chatgpt"
      >(),
      execute: new GoogleShoppingService({
        apiKey: process.env.SERP_API_KEY!,
      }),
    },
  ],
});
```

This ensures that the `GoogleShoppingAgent` only has access to these specific functions, making your integration more secure and maintainable.


## Use Case Example

Imagine asking the agent:

> "What are the best medications for hair loss?"

The agent can then use the `iherb` function to search for hair loss medications on iHerb, providing you with the best options available.

## Available Functions

For a list of available functions in `GoogleShoppingService`, check out the source code:
👉 [wrtnlabs/connectors - GoogleShoppingService.ts](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/connectors/blob/main/packages/google_shopping/src/google_shopping/GoogleShoppingService.ts)

That's it. This **single code block** gives you a fully functional Google Shopping Agent, ready for AI-powered google shoppiong automation. 🚀

Commit message:

docs: add stackblitz demo code on the playground

website/content/tutorial/productivity/google-shopping.mdx, after:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > Google Shopping Agents
---

## Introduction

- [playground](https://stackblitz.com/~/github.com/wrtnlabs/agentica-tutorial-google-shopping?file=README.md) You can see the demo code on the playground.

This tutorial guides you through setting up a **fully functional Google Shopping Agent** using **Agentica**. With the following code block, you can create an agent that interacts with Google Shopping, powered by **OpenAI's GPT model**.

## The Complete Google Shopping Agent

First, install the required Google Shopping connector package:

```bash
npm install @wrtnlabs/connector-google-shopping
```

Then, add the following code to your project:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import { GoogleShoppingService } from "@wrtnlabs/connector-google-shopping";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import OpenAI from "openai";
import typia from "typia";

dotenv.config();

const openai = new OpenAI({ apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY });

export const GoogleShoppingAgent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: openai,
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Google Shopping Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<GoogleShoppingService, "chatgpt">(),
      execute: new GoogleShoppingService({
        apiKey: process.env.SERP_API_KEY!,
      }),
    },
  ],
});
```

## What This Does

With this single setup, your Google Shopping Agent is ready to:

- **Process Google Shopping data** using the `GoogleShopping` connector.
- **Leverage OpenAI’s GPT model** for intelligent shopping queries.
- **Ensure type safety** with `typia`.
- **Securely manage credentials** using `dotenv`.

Just set up your **environment variables** in a `.env` file:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
SERP_API_KEY=serp_api_key
```

Make sure to enter the API key from your SerpApi account in the SERP_API_KEY field.

And you’re all set! 🎉

## Selecting Specific Functions

By using TypeScript’s `Pick` utility type, you can restrict the `GoogleShoppingService` to only expose the methods you need.

For example, in the following code, only these six functions are available:

- `aliExpress`
- `iherb`

```typescript
export const GoogleShoppingAgent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: openai,
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Google Shopping Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<
        Pick<GoogleShoppingService, "aliExpress" | "iherb">,
        "chatgpt"
      >(),
      execute: new GoogleShoppingService({
        apiKey: process.env.SERP_API_KEY!,
      }),
    },
  ],
});
```

This ensures that the `GoogleShoppingAgent` only has access to these specific functions, making your integration more secure and maintainable.

## Use Case Example

Imagine asking the agent:

> "What are the best medications for hair loss?"

The agent can then use the `iherb` function to search for hair loss medications on iHerb, providing you with the best options available.

## Available Functions

For a list of available functions in `GoogleShoppingService`, check out the source code:
👉 [wrtnlabs/connectors - GoogleShoppingService.ts](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/connectors/blob/main/packages/google_shopping/src/google_shopping/GoogleShoppingService.ts)

That's it. This **single code block** gives you a fully functional Google Shopping Agent, ready for AI-powered google shoppiong automation. 🚀
