website/content/tutorial/productivity/google-calendar.mdx, before:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > Google Calendar Agents  
---

## Introduction

Set up a **fully functional Google Calendar Agent** powered by OpenAI's GPT model effortlessly—using the Agentica CLI.

## Quick CLI Setup

Start the Agentica Setup Wizard with a single command:

```bash
npx agentica start google-calendar-agent
```

The wizard will guide you to:
- Install required packages (e.g., agentica@0.12.14)
- Choose your package manager and project type
- Select embedded controllers (choose **GOOGLE CALENDAR**)
- Enter your `OPENAI_API_KEY`

Once finished, Agentica generates your code, creates a `.env` file, and installs all dependencies.

## Generated Code Overview

The generated code looks like this:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import typia from "typia";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import { OpenAI } from "openai";

import { GoogleCalendarService } from "@wrtnlabs/connector-google-calendar";

dotenv.config();

export const agent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: new OpenAI({
      apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY!,
    }),
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "GoogleCalendar Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<GoogleCalendarService, "chatgpt">(),
      execute: new GoogleCalendarService(),
    },
  ],
});

const main = async () => {
  console.log(await agent.conversate("What can you do?"));
};

main();
```

This code sets up your Google Calendar Agent, ready to interact with Google Calendar.

## Google API Setup

Before running the agent, add your Google API credentials to the `.env` file:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
GOOGLE_CALENDAR_CLIENT_ID=your-google-calendar-client-id
GOOGLE_CALENDAR_CLIENT_SECRET=your-google-calendar-client-secret
GOOGLE_CALENDAR_REFRESH_TOKEN=your-google-calendar-refresh-token
```

To get these credentials:
1. **Create a Project in Google Cloud Console:**  
   - Enable the **Google Calendar API**.
2. **Obtain Credentials:**  
   - Generate OAuth 2.0 credentials to get your Client ID, Client Secret, and Refresh Token.

## What This Does

With this setup, your Google Calendar Agent:
- **Interacts with Google Calendar:** Using the `GoogleCalendarService` connector.
- **Leverages OpenAI's GPT Model:** For intelligent calendar management.
- **Maintains Type Safety:** With `typia`.
- **Secures Credentials:** Using `dotenv`.

## Selecting Specific Functions

You can also restrict the available functions using TypeScript’s `Pick` utility. For example, to expose only these functions:

- `getCalendarList`
- `createCalendar`
- `eventList`
- `createEvent`
- `updateEvent`
- `deleteEvent`

```typescript
export const GoogleCalendarAgent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: openai,
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Google Calendar Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<
        Pick<
          GoogleCalendarService,
          | "getCalendarList"
          | "createCalendar"
          | "eventList"
          | "createEvent"
          | "updateEvent"
          | "deleteEvent"
        >,
        "chatgpt"
      >(),
      execute: new GoogleCalendarService({
        clientId: process.env.GOOGLE_CALENDAR_CLIENT_ID!,
        clientSecret: process.env.GOOGLE_CALENDAR_CLIENT_SECRET!,
        secret: process.env.GOOGLE_CALENDAR_REFRESH_TOKEN!,
      }),
    },
  ],
});
```

This ensures a more secure and maintainable integration.

## Available Functions

For a complete list of functions available in `GoogleCalendarService`, check out the source code:  
👉 [wrtnlabs/connectors - GoogleCalendarService.ts](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/connectors/blob/main/packages/google_calendar/src/google_calendar/GoogleCalendarService.ts)

Your AI-powered Google Calendar Agent is now ready to streamline your calendar interactions! 🚀

Commit message:

docs: add stackblitz demo code on the playground

website/content/tutorial/productivity/google-calendar.mdx, after:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > Google Calendar Agents
---

## Introduction

- [playground](https://stackblitz.com/~/github.com/wrtnlabs/agentica-tutorial-google-calendar?file=README.md) You can see the demo code on the playground.

Set up a **fully functional Google Calendar Agent** powered by OpenAI's GPT model effortlessly—using the Agentica CLI.

## Quick CLI Setup

Start the Agentica Setup Wizard with a single command:

```bash
npx agentica start google-calendar-agent
```

The wizard will guide you to:

- Install required packages (e.g., agentica@0.12.14)
- Choose your package manager and project type
- Select embedded controllers (choose **GOOGLE CALENDAR**)
- Enter your `OPENAI_API_KEY`

Once finished, Agentica generates your code, creates a `.env` file, and installs all dependencies.

## Generated Code Overview

The generated code looks like this:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import typia from "typia";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import { OpenAI } from "openai";

import { GoogleCalendarService } from "@wrtnlabs/connector-google-calendar";

dotenv.config();

export const agent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: new OpenAI({
      apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY!,
    }),
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "GoogleCalendar Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<GoogleCalendarService, "chatgpt">(),
      execute: new GoogleCalendarService(),
    },
  ],
});

const main = async () => {
  console.log(await agent.conversate("What can you do?"));
};

main();
```

This code sets up your Google Calendar Agent, ready to interact with Google Calendar.

## Google API Setup

Before running the agent, add your Google API credentials to the `.env` file:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
GOOGLE_CALENDAR_CLIENT_ID=your-google-calendar-client-id
GOOGLE_CALENDAR_CLIENT_SECRET=your-google-calendar-client-secret
GOOGLE_CALENDAR_REFRESH_TOKEN=your-google-calendar-refresh-token
```

To get these credentials:

1. **Create a Project in Google Cloud Console:**
   - Enable the **Google Calendar API**.
2. **Obtain Credentials:**
   - Generate OAuth 2.0 credentials to get your Client ID, Client Secret, and Refresh Token.

## What This Does

With this setup, your Google Calendar Agent:

- **Interacts with Google Calendar:** Using the `GoogleCalendarService` connector.
- **Leverages OpenAI's GPT Model:** For intelligent calendar management.
- **Maintains Type Safety:** With `typia`.
- **Secures Credentials:** Using `dotenv`.

## Selecting Specific Functions

You can also restrict the available functions using TypeScript’s `Pick` utility. For example, to expose only these functions:

- `getCalendarList`
- `createCalendar`
- `eventList`
- `createEvent`
- `updateEvent`
- `deleteEvent`

```typescript
export const GoogleCalendarAgent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: openai,
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Google Calendar Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<
        Pick<
          GoogleCalendarService,
          | "getCalendarList"
          | "createCalendar"
          | "eventList"
          | "createEvent"
          | "updateEvent"
          | "deleteEvent"
        >,
        "chatgpt"
      >(),
      execute: new GoogleCalendarService({
        clientId: process.env.GOOGLE_CALENDAR_CLIENT_ID!,
        clientSecret: process.env.GOOGLE_CALENDAR_CLIENT_SECRET!,
        secret: process.env.GOOGLE_CALENDAR_REFRESH_TOKEN!,
      }),
    },
  ],
});
```

This ensures a more secure and maintainable integration.

## Available Functions

For a complete list of functions available in `GoogleCalendarService`, check out the source code:  
👉 [wrtnlabs/connectors - GoogleCalendarService.ts](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/connectors/blob/main/packages/google_calendar/src/google_calendar/GoogleCalendarService.ts)

Your AI-powered Google Calendar Agent is now ready to streamline your calendar interactions! 🚀
