website/content/tutorial/productivity/notion.mdx, before:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > Notion Agents  
---

## Introduction

Set up a **fully functional Notion Agent** powered by OpenAI's GPT model quickly using the Agentica CLI. This agent lets you read, create, and update Notion pages effortlessly.

## Quick CLI Setup

Start the Agentica Setup Wizard with a single command:

```bash
npx agentica start notion-agent
```

The wizard will guide you through:
- Installing required packages (e.g., agentica@0.12.14)
- Choosing your package manager and project type
- Selecting the **NOTION** controller
- Entering your `OPENAI_API_KEY`

Once complete, Agentica automatically generates your code, creates a `.env` file, and installs all dependencies.

## Generated Code Overview

The generated code looks like this:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import typia from "typia";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import { OpenAI } from "openai";

import { NotionService } from "@wrtnlabs/connector-notion";

dotenv.config();

export const agent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: new OpenAI({
      apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY!,
    }),
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Notion Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<NotionService, "chatgpt">(),
      execute: new NotionService(),
    },
  ],
});

const main = async () => {
  console.log(await agent.conversate("What can you do?"));
};

main();

```

This code instantly sets up your Notion Agent, ready to interact with your Notion workspace by reading pages, retrieving content, and creating or updating pages using natural language commands.

## Notion API Setup

Before running the agent, configure your Notion API credentials:

1. **Integration:**  
   - Create your integration at [Notion Integrations](https://www.notion.so/profile/integrations) and add your Private API Integration Secret to your `.env` file.

2. **Permissions:**  
   - Enable the necessary permissions (reading, updating, creating pages, etc.) during setup.

3. **Data Sharing:**  
   - Share your relevant Notion pages or databases with your integration.

Add the following to your `.env` file:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
NOTION_SECRET_KEY=your-notion-secret-key
```

## What This Does

Your Notion Agent can:
- **Retrieve a List of Pages:** Use `readPageList` to get your Notion pages.
- **Read Page Contents:** Fetch detailed content via `readPageContents`.
- **Create New Pages:** Automatically format and create pages using `createPageByMarkdown`.
- **Update Existing Pages:** Modify page content with `updatePageContent`.

Leveraging OpenAI's GPT model, the agent translates natural language queries into API calls, making it easy to interact with your Notion workspace.

## Use Case Example

Imagine asking the agent:

> "Summarize the latest meeting discussion and create a new page with the summary."

The agent will process your query by summarizing the content and execute `createPageByMarkdown` to create a new page with the formatted summary. You can also update existing pages through natural language commands.

## Available Functions

For a complete list of functions available in `NotionService`, check out the source code:  
👉 [wrtnlabs/connectors - NotionService.ts](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/connectors/blob/main/packages/notion/src/notion/NotionService.ts)

Your AI-powered Notion Agent is now ready to streamline your Notion interactions! Enjoy harnessing the power of natural language with your Notion data. 🚀

Commit message:

docs(website): add stackblitz demo code on the playground (#193)

website/content/tutorial/productivity/notion.mdx, after:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > Notion Agents
---

## Introduction

- [playground](https://stackblitz.com/~/github.com/wrtnlabs/agentica-tutorial-notion?file=README.md) You can see the demo code on the playground.

Set up a **fully functional Notion Agent** powered by OpenAI's GPT model quickly using the Agentica CLI. This agent lets you read, create, and update Notion pages effortlessly.

## Quick CLI Setup

Start the Agentica Setup Wizard with a single command:

```bash
npx agentica start notion-agent
```

The wizard will guide you through:

- Installing required packages (e.g., agentica@0.12.14)
- Choosing your package manager and project type
- Selecting the **NOTION** controller
- Entering your `OPENAI_API_KEY`

Once complete, Agentica automatically generates your code, creates a `.env` file, and installs all dependencies.

## Generated Code Overview

The generated code looks like this:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import typia from "typia";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import { OpenAI } from "openai";

import { NotionService } from "@wrtnlabs/connector-notion";

dotenv.config();

export const agent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: new OpenAI({
      apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY!,
    }),
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Notion Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<NotionService, "chatgpt">(),
      execute: new NotionService(),
    },
  ],
});

const main = async () => {
  console.log(await agent.conversate("What can you do?"));
};

main();
```

This code instantly sets up your Notion Agent, ready to interact with your Notion workspace by reading pages, retrieving content, and creating or updating pages using natural language commands.

## Notion API Setup

Before running the agent, configure your Notion API credentials:

1. **Integration:**

   - Create your integration at [Notion Integrations](https://www.notion.so/profile/integrations) and add your Private API Integration Secret to your `.env` file.

2. **Permissions:**

   - Enable the necessary permissions (reading, updating, creating pages, etc.) during setup.

3. **Data Sharing:**
   - Share your relevant Notion pages or databases with your integration.

Add the following to your `.env` file:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
NOTION_SECRET_KEY=your-notion-secret-key
```

## What This Does

Your Notion Agent can:

- **Retrieve a List of Pages:** Use `readPageList` to get your Notion pages.
- **Read Page Contents:** Fetch detailed content via `readPageContents`.
- **Create New Pages:** Automatically format and create pages using `createPageByMarkdown`.
- **Update Existing Pages:** Modify page content with `updatePageContent`.

Leveraging OpenAI's GPT model, the agent translates natural language queries into API calls, making it easy to interact with your Notion workspace.

## Use Case Example

Imagine asking the agent:

> "Summarize the latest meeting discussion and create a new page with the summary."

The agent will process your query by summarizing the content and execute `createPageByMarkdown` to create a new page with the formatted summary. You can also update existing pages through natural language commands.

## Available Functions

For a complete list of functions available in `NotionService`, check out the source code:  
👉 [wrtnlabs/connectors - NotionService.ts](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/connectors/blob/main/packages/notion/src/notion/NotionService.ts)

Your AI-powered Notion Agent is now ready to streamline your Notion interactions! Enjoy harnessing the power of natural language with your Notion data. 🚀
