website/content/tutorial/productivity/slack.mdx, before:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > Slack Agents  
---

## Introduction

Set up a **fully functional Slack Agent** powered by OpenAI's GPT model quickly using the Agentica CLI. This agent lets you interact with Slack—sending messages, managing channels, and more—with natural language commands.

## Quick CLI Setup

Launch the Agentica Setup Wizard with a single command:

```bash
npx agentica start slack-agent
```

The wizard guides you through:
- Installing required packages (e.g., agentica@0.12.14)
- Choosing your package manager and project type
- Selecting the **SLACK** controller
- Entering your `OPENAI_API_KEY`

Once complete, Agentica automatically generates your code, creates a `.env` file, and installs all dependencies.

## Generated Code Overview

The generated code looks like this:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import typia from "typia";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import { OpenAI } from "openai";

import { SlackService } from "@wrtnlabs/connector-slack";

dotenv.config();

export const agent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: new OpenAI({
      apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY!,
    }),
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Slack Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<SlackService, "chatgpt">(),
      execute: new SlackService(),
    },
  ],
});

const main = async () => {
  console.log(await agent.conversate("What can you do?"));
};

main();

```

This code instantly sets up your Slack Agent to interact with Slack via the provided functions.

## Slack API Setup

Before running your agent, configure your Slack API credentials:

1. **Create a Slack App:**  
   - Visit [Slack API: Applications](https://api.slack.com/apps) and create a new application.
   - Add the recommended scopes (e.g., `channels:read`, `chat:write`, `users:read`, etc.) to enable the functions used in this implementation.

2. **Obtain Credentials:**  
   - After setting up your app, obtain your **Secret Key** (and other credentials if needed) and add it to your environment variables.

3. **Set Up Environment Variables:**  
   - Create or update your `.env` file with:

   ```env
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
   SLACK_SECRET_KEY=your-slack-secret-key
   ```

## What This Does

With this configuration, the Slack Agent can:
- **Interact with Slack:** Use the `SlackService` connector to send messages, manage channels, and more.
- **Leverage OpenAI's GPT Model:** Process natural language commands for intelligent interactions.
- **Maintain Type Safety:** With `typia`.
- **Securely Manage Credentials:** Using environment variables with `dotenv`.

## Available Functions

For a complete list of available functions in `SlackService`, refer to the source code:  
👉 [SlackService.ts](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/connectors/blob/main/packages/slack/src/slack/SlackService.ts)

## Appendix: Integrating Your Agent as a Slack Bot

To fully integrate your agent as a Slack bot that responds to mentions and events, follow these additional steps:

### Complete Your Slack App Configuration

1. **Event Subscriptions:**  
   - In your Slack app settings, enable **Event Subscriptions**.
   - Provide your **Request URL**. (Use a service like ngrok if testing locally.)
   - Ensure your server responds with the required challenge parameter for verification.

2. **Subscribe to Bot Events:**  
   - Under **Subscribe to Bot Events**, add events such as `app_mention` to ensure your agent receives messages when mentioned.

3. **Customize Bot Identity:**  
   - Optionally, update your bot’s display name and icon under **App Home** to personalize its presence in Slack.

### Interacting with Your Slack Bot

Once integrated, you can interact with your agent by mentioning it in a channel:

```plaintext
@your_bot_name Send a welcome message to the #general channel.
```

Your agent will process the message using its Slack connector functions and respond accordingly.

---

**Security Note:**  
This example is for demonstration purposes. Always handle your Slack API credentials securely and follow best practices in production environments.

Your AI-powered Slack Agent is now ready for automated, intelligent Slack interactions. Enjoy streamlining your Slack workflows! 🚀

Commit message:

docs: add stackblitz demo code on the playground

website/content/tutorial/productivity/slack.mdx, after:

---
title: Agentica > Tutorial > Slack Agents
---

## Introduction

- [playground](https://stackblitz.com/~/github.com/wrtnlabs/agentica-tutorial-slack?file=README.md) You can see the demo code on the playground.

Set up a **fully functional Slack Agent** powered by OpenAI's GPT model quickly using the Agentica CLI. This agent lets you interact with Slack—sending messages, managing channels, and more—with natural language commands.

## Quick CLI Setup

Launch the Agentica Setup Wizard with a single command:

```bash
npx agentica start slack-agent
```

The wizard guides you through:

- Installing required packages (e.g., agentica@0.12.14)
- Choosing your package manager and project type
- Selecting the **SLACK** controller
- Entering your `OPENAI_API_KEY`

Once complete, Agentica automatically generates your code, creates a `.env` file, and installs all dependencies.

## Generated Code Overview

The generated code looks like this:

```typescript
import { Agentica } from "@agentica/core";
import typia from "typia";
import dotenv from "dotenv";
import { OpenAI } from "openai";

import { SlackService } from "@wrtnlabs/connector-slack";

dotenv.config();

export const agent = new Agentica({
  model: "chatgpt",
  vendor: {
    api: new OpenAI({
      apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY!,
    }),
    model: "gpt-4o-mini",
  },
  controllers: [
    {
      name: "Slack Connector",
      protocol: "class",
      application: typia.llm.application<SlackService, "chatgpt">(),
      execute: new SlackService(),
    },
  ],
});

const main = async () => {
  console.log(await agent.conversate("What can you do?"));
};

main();
```

This code instantly sets up your Slack Agent to interact with Slack via the provided functions.

## Slack API Setup

Before running your agent, configure your Slack API credentials:

1. **Create a Slack App:**

   - Visit [Slack API: Applications](https://api.slack.com/apps) and create a new application.
   - Add the recommended scopes (e.g., `channels:read`, `chat:write`, `users:read`, etc.) to enable the functions used in this implementation.

2. **Obtain Credentials:**

   - After setting up your app, obtain your **Secret Key** (and other credentials if needed) and add it to your environment variables.

3. **Set Up Environment Variables:**

   - Create or update your `.env` file with:

   ```env
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your-openai-api-key
   SLACK_SECRET_KEY=your-slack-secret-key
   ```

## What This Does

With this configuration, the Slack Agent can:

- **Interact with Slack:** Use the `SlackService` connector to send messages, manage channels, and more.
- **Leverage OpenAI's GPT Model:** Process natural language commands for intelligent interactions.
- **Maintain Type Safety:** With `typia`.
- **Securely Manage Credentials:** Using environment variables with `dotenv`.

## Available Functions

For a complete list of available functions in `SlackService`, refer to the source code:  
👉 [SlackService.ts](https://github.com/wrtnlabs/connectors/blob/main/packages/slack/src/slack/SlackService.ts)

## Appendix: Integrating Your Agent as a Slack Bot

To fully integrate your agent as a Slack bot that responds to mentions and events, follow these additional steps:

### Complete Your Slack App Configuration

1. **Event Subscriptions:**

   - In your Slack app settings, enable **Event Subscriptions**.
   - Provide your **Request URL**. (Use a service like ngrok if testing locally.)
   - Ensure your server responds with the required challenge parameter for verification.

2. **Subscribe to Bot Events:**

   - Under **Subscribe to Bot Events**, add events such as `app_mention` to ensure your agent receives messages when mentioned.

3. **Customize Bot Identity:**
   - Optionally, update your bot’s display name and icon under **App Home** to personalize its presence in Slack.

### Interacting with Your Slack Bot

Once integrated, you can interact with your agent by mentioning it in a channel:

```plaintext
@your_bot_name Send a welcome message to the #general channel.
```

Your agent will process the message using its Slack connector functions and respond accordingly.

---

**Security Note:**  
This example is for demonstration purposes. Always handle your Slack API credentials securely and follow best practices in production environments.

Your AI-powered Slack Agent is now ready for automated, intelligent Slack interactions. Enjoy streamlining your Slack workflows! 🚀
